Application processes and all high value business logic flows shall be verified in a trusted environment, such as on a protected and monitored server.
It shall be verified that the application does not allow spoofed high value transactions, such as allowing Attacker User A to process a transaction as Victim User B, by tampering with or replaying session, transaction state, transaction or user IDs.
It shall be verified that the application does not allow high value business logic parameters to be tampered with, which include, but are not limited to, price, interest, discounts, PII, balances, stock IDs, etc.
It shall be verified that the application has defensive measures; such as verifiable and protected transaction logs, audit trails or system logs, and, in the highest value systems, real time monitoring of user activities and transactions for anomalies; to protect against repudiation attacks.
It shall be verified that the application protects against information disclosure attacks, such as direct object reference, tampering, session brute force or other attacks.
It shall be verified that the application has sufficient detection and governor controls to protect against brute force (such as the continuous use of a particular function) or denial of service attacks.
It shall be verified that the application has sufficient access controls to prevent elevation of privilege attacks. Such controls shall include preventing anonymous users from accessing secured data or secured functions, and preventing users from accessing each other’s details or using privileged functions.
It shall be verified that the application processes business logic flows in sequential steps only, with all steps being processed directly. Additionally, the application shall be verified not to process out of order, skip steps, process steps from another user, or process transactions submitted quickly.
It shall be verified that the application has additional authorization (such as step up or adaptive authentication) for lower value systems, and/or segregation of duties for high value applications, to enforce anti-fraud controls as per the risk of application and past fraud.
It shall be verified that the application has business limits and enforces them in a trusted location (e.g., on a protected server) on a per user or per day basis, with configurable alerting and automated reactions to automated or unusual attack.
