For in-house developed software, explicit error checking shall be performed and documented for all input, including size, data type, and acceptable ranges or formats.
It shall be verified that the application does not output error messages or stack traces containing protected data that could assist an attacker, including a session ID and personal information.
It shall be verified that error handling is performed on trusted devices.
It shall be verified that all logging controls are implemented on the server.
It shall be verified that error handling logic in security controls denies access by default.
It shall be verified that security logging controls provide the ability to log both success and failure events that are identified as security-relevant.
It shall be verified that each log event includes a time stamp from a reliable source, severity level of the event, an indication that the event is a security relevant event (if mixed with other logs), the identity of the user that caused the event (if there is a user associated with the event), the source IP address of the request associated with the event, whether the event succeeded or failed, and a description of the event.
It shall be verified that all logs are protected from unauthorized access and modification.
It shall be verified that the application does not log application-specific protected data that could assist an attacker, including user’s session IDs and personal or protected information.
It shall be verified that a log analysis tool is available which allows an analyst to search for log events based on a combination of search criteria across all fields in the log record format supported by this system.
It shall be verified that all events that include untrusted data will not execute as code in the intended log viewing software.
It shall be verified that there is a single logging implementation that is used by the application.
It shall be verified that logs have a standard regular procedure for backing up or archiving.
“Try catch” shall be implemented where applicable.
It shall be verified that all the below logs are enabled:
Log of all input validation failures
Log of all authentication attempts, especially failures
Log of all access control failures
Log of all apparent tampering events, including unexpected changes to data status.
Log of attempts to connect with invalid or expired session tokens
Log of all system exceptions
Log of all administrative functions, including changes to the security configuration settings
Log of all backend TLS connection failures
Log of cryptographic module failures
